With all this information about stream processing under your belt,
you may be wondering what the advantages of stream processing are.
As people learn about stream processing,
they begin to see that it represents a paradigm shift,
not only in terms of how they see their data,
but and how they represent and process it as well.
What makes stream processing worth the effort anyway?
There are many scenarios in which stream processing provides
significant benefits or provides functionality that would otherwise be impossible.
Stream processing is typically faster for
scenarios where a limited set of recent data is needed.
Because stream processing applications are receiving events as soon as they occur,
they can perform your calculation in real time.
Stream processing applications are also
typically more scalable due to the distributed nature of the underlying data stores.
A single data stream may feed tens, hundreds,
or even thousands of disparate processing applications with relatively little overhead.
Additionally, data streaming conceptually decouples how
data might be used from how it is produced.
Applications simply produce descriptive events as they occur.
This means that one set of data may satisfy
many use cases which may or may not be predictable when the event was originally created.
Encouraging applications to simply produce events
and not specific models for downstream data manipulation,
provides a powerful abstraction that decouples applications from each other.
Finally, because the data in data streams are immutable and an order,
streaming applications can replay events
and observe exactly what occurred and in what order.
This provides more opportunities to recover from
error states or dig into how a particular result was actually arrived at.